# MLEND-Capstone-Project
Udacity Machine Learning Engineer Nanodegree Capstone Project

This 18-month long journey began in January 2019, my last semester at the University of Notre Dame. This month marked the beginning of my final semester of college, as well as my introduction to the universe of computer programming. I enrolled in my first ever programming class, Scientific Computing, in which I learned all of the fundamentals of C++ for applications of mathematical and scientific computation. 

As one of the projects for this class, I unwittingly coded my first machine learning algorithm, a simple linear regression model. Just over a year later, I used AWS's state of the art DeepAR Forecasting Algorithm to create a deep learning model able to predict stock price movements with 75% accuracy. Following my graduation from Notre Dame, I continued to pursue my newly found love of coding with accelerating intensity. Working through crash course books and countless hours of Udemy courses and YouTube tutorials, I developed my Python coding skills. Naturally, I gravitated towards its applications to data science, a pursuit that was nudged and pulled by a myriad of external inspirations (the works of Yuval Noah Harrari, my admiration for Elon Musk, my insatiable interest in simulation theory, curiosity in human consciousness, and Lex Fridman's Artificial Intelligence Podcast, just to name a few), until I ultimately, and seemingly inevitably, discovered Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. 

I began with Python Crash Course books, relearning the basics of computer science through in the context of the python language. First I created a space invaders-esque game by following the exercises in the book, then used those skills to create my own solitaire game from scratch in Pygame. I utilized python to build simple websites with Django, create beautiful data visualizations with matplotlib, seaborn and plotly, automate boring tasks with pyautogui, and automate stock trades with Quantopian. I worked through countless hours of python and machine learning courses in Udemy, getting introductions to data science and preprocessing with pandas and numpy, machine learning algorithms with sci-kit learn, and deep learning algorithms with PyTorch, Keras, and TensorFlow. 

However, it wasn't until I started to work through Andrew Ng's Machine Learning class on Coursera when my path was determined and my passion validated. Ng's course served as a surmountable bridge between my past studies in mathematics/econometrics and my future work in Artificial Intelligence. Not only did this course give me the knowledge, tools, and intuition necessary to succeed, it confirmed that these once lofty goals to pursue a career in A.I. were undoubtedly achievable. From the mathematics behind the algorithms to the intuition of backpropagation, Ng's Machine Learning course gave me a true glimpse into what Machine Learning truly looks like, and it enthralled me. 

After completing the Machine Learning course, I was excited to be able to appreciate all of the time, dedication, and discipline that went into completing the course. But I was even more excited to start looking for the next step in my journey. When I found Udacity's courses I knew that they would offer me the perfect platform to refine and showcase the skills I had been developing over the past year. I read through the course descriptions and ultimately chose to skip over the beginner and intermediate levels, deciding to take on one of the few 'advanced' nano degrees they offered, the Machine Learning Engineer Nanodegree. Developed in collaboration with Amazon Web Services, the curriculum provided insight into state of the are tools and techniques used by practicing machine learning engineers. AWS's virtual GPUs, SageMaker's Jupyter Notebooks, PyTorch and TensorFlow integration, an assortment of sophisticated machine learning and deep learning algorithms; I utilized all of these tools to complete some of the most rewarding projects I have ever worked on, all while developing fundamental skills in software engineering and the machine learning workflow. 

Over the past month, I spent hours every night working on my nano degree capstone project, the last task I needed to complete to receive the degree. While there were three suggested projects that one could complete to satisfy their capstone requirement, one could also choose to submit a proposal for a project of their design. I chose to challenge myself and design my ML capstone project in which I used stock data and technical indicators to train a deep learning model to accurately predict stock price movements. I ended up using AWS's DeepAR Forecasting Algorithm. An algorithm specifically designed to forecast time series data, by fitting multiple time series inputs to a recurrent neural network. This project proved quite successful. I was able to achieve the benchmark metric of 75% accuracy using OHLCV data from the S&P 500 scraped from Yahoo Finance. While my MLEND capstone project served as the last graduation requirement necessary to complete the nano degree, it also represented the culmination of a larger journey that started 18-months ago when I started my first computer programming class. However, more importantly, this achievement represents a successful end of just another chapter in my life long pursuit of learning. 
